\input texinfo	@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename cftp.info
@settitle cftp
@setchapternewpage odd
@c %**end of header
@c @synindex tp vr

@include version.texi

@ifinfo
@format
START-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
* cftp: (cftp).             Comfortable FTP.
END-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
@end format
@end ifinfo

@ifinfo
This file documents cftp @value{VERSION}

Copyright 1996-2002 Dieter Baron, Thomas Klausner

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph


@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation
approved by the Free Software Foundation.
@end ifinfo


@titlepage
@title @sc{cftp} -- Comfortable FTP
@subtitle For version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Dieter Baron
@author Thomas Klausner
@c copyright page
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1996-2002 Dieter Baron, Thomas Klausner
@sp 2
This is a draft edition of the @sc{cftp} documentation,@*
and is consistent with @sc{cftp} @value{VERSION}.@*
@sp 2
@ignore
Published by the Free Software Foundation @*
59 Template Place - Suite 330, @*
Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA @*

@end ignore
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation
approved by the Free Software Foundation.
@end titlepage

@ifinfo
@c ****************************************************************
@node Top, , ,(dir)
@top cftp

This file documents @sc{cftp}, a fullscreen ftp client running on
ASCII-terminals or terminal emulations (like xterm).  This edition
documents version @value{VERSION}.

@menu
* Introduction::        An introduction to @sc{cftp}
* Invoking cftp::       How to start @sc{cftp}
* Navigating::          Navigating the remote directory tree
* Customizability::     How to customize and configure @sc{cftp}
* Functions::           Description of all bindable functions
* Options::             User setable options
* Index::               Listing of all keywords
@end menu
@end ifinfo


@c ********************************************************************
@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cindex Introduction

@sc{cftp} is used to transfer files from one computer to another via the
FTP protocol.  It's advantages over most standard ftp clients is its
fullscreen representation of the remote directory tree, providing a
compact overview of the remote server's contents.


@c ****************************************************************
@node Invoking cftp
@chapter Invoking @sc{cftp}
@cindex Invokation

There are two ways to specify the destination:

@itemize @bullet
@item cftp [-u @var{user}] [-p @var{port}] @{@var{host}|@var{alias}@} @var{directory}
@item cftp @var{url}
@end itemize

Where @var{url} has the form
@example
ftp://[@var{user}[@var{password}]@@]@var{host}[:@var{port}][/@var{dir}][/]
@end example

@c XXX das mach ich schon


@c ********************************************************************
@node Navigating
@chapter Navigating the Remote Directory Tree
@cindex Customizability

@sc{cftp} understands the basic motion keys for both vi/less and GNU Emacs,
as well as cursor keys.

@multitable {cursor right  } {vi/less} {GNU Emacs} {command}
@item cursor key         @tab vi/less   @tab GNU Emacs @tab command
@item @kbd{cursor up}    @tab @kbd{k}   @tab @kbd{^p}  @tab @code{up}
@item @kbd{cursor down}  @tab @kbd{j}   @tab @kbd{^n}  @tab @code{down}
@item @kbd{cursor left}  @tab @kbd{h}   @tab @kbd{^b}  @tab @code{leave}
@item @kbd{cursor right} @tab @kbd{l}   @tab @kbd{^f}  @tab @code{enter/get}
@item @kbd{page up}      @tab @kbd{b}   @tab           @tab @code{page-up}
@item @kbd{page down}    @tab @kbd{spc} @tab           @tab @code{page-down}
@end multitable

@c ********************************************************************
@node Customizability
@chapter Customizability
@cindex Customizability

@menu
* cftprc::             startup file for user-defined settings
* netrc::              @sc{cftp}'s use of the .netrc file
@end menu


@c ====================================================================
@node cftprc
@section .cftprc
@cindex .cftprc
@cindex cftprc

On startup @sc{cftp} reads the file @file{.cftprc} (in your home
directory) if it exists.  It contains @sc{cftp} functions invocations
(optionally with arguments), just as in the @code{bind} function.  Put
@sc{cftp} commands in it you want to be executed every time @sc{cftp}
starts.  Not all functions are allowed in @file{.cftprc}, however.

@menu
* alias::               Shortcuts for hosts and directories.
* cftprc example::     
@end menu

@c XXX: include all allowed commands


@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node alias
@subsection alias
@cindex alias

@itemize @bullet
@item
Synopsis: alias @var{short} @{@var{url} | @var{host} [@var{dir}]@}
@end itemize



@c ----------------------------------------------------------------
@node cftprc example
@subsection .cftp example

Here is an example .cftprc file:

@example
alias cftp-dist ftp://ftp.giga.or.at/pub/nih/cftp
set sort date
bind p set beep toggle
@end example

@c ====================================================================
@node netrc
@section .netrc
@cindex .netrc
@cindex netrc

In addition to its own config file @file{.cftprc}, see @ref{cftprc},
@sc{cftp} scans your @file{.netrc} file for this information:

@itemize @bullet
@item @code{host} or @code{default} lines for @code{login} and
@code{password}
@item @code{macdef init} definition for @code{cd} commands (used as
initial directory)
@end itemize

An entry for a specific host:

@example
machine @var{host} login @var{user} password @var{passwd}
macdef init
cd @var{startdir}

@end example

The default entry (used for all hosts not matched by a specific entry):

@example
default login @var{user} password @var{passwd}
macdef init
cd @var{startdir}

@end example

The @code{macdef init} must be terminated by a blank line.
@code{password} and @code{macdef init} may be ommited.

@include functions.texi


@include options.texi


@c *********************************************************************
@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@cindex Index

@printindex cp

@summarycontents

@contents

@bye

